README.md, before:

# Smithy Examples
This repository contains a range of examples to help you get up and running with [Smithy](https://smithy.io).

*Note*: You will need the [Smithy CLI](https://smithy.io/2.0/guides/smithy-cli/index.html) installed to use the examples in this
repository as templates.
If you do not have the CLI installed, follow [this guide](https://smithy.io/2.0/guides/smithy-cli/index.html) to install it now.


### What is Smithy
Smithy is an interface definition language and set of tools that allows developers to build clients and servers in 
multiple languages. A Smithy model enables API providers to generate clients and servers in various programming languages, 
API documentation, test automation, and example code.


## Examples
- [Getting Started](getting-started-examples/README.md) - Build the Smithy [quick start example](https://smithy.io/2.0/quickstart.html).
- [Conversion](conversion-examples/README.md) - Convert Smithy models to other formats (such as OpenAPI) and vice versa 
- [Custom Traits](custom-trait-examples/README.md) - Create custom Smithy [traits](https://smithy.io/2.0/spec/model.html#traits) to use for defining custom model metadata.
- [Projections](projection-examples/README.md) - Using Smithy [projections](https://smithy.io/2.0/guides/building-models/build-config.html#projections) to create different views of 
  your model for specific consumers.
- [Shared Models](shared-models/README.md) - Create a package of common Smithy shapes that can be shared between Smithy models.


## Contributing
Contributions are welcome. Please read the [contribution guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) first.


## Security
See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md#security-issue-notifications) for more information.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT-0 License.

Commit message:

Add linting and validation examples to templates file (#35)

README.md, after:

# Smithy Examples
This repository contains a range of examples to help you get up and running with [Smithy](https://smithy.io).

*Note*: You will need the [Smithy CLI](https://smithy.io/2.0/guides/smithy-cli/index.html) installed to use the examples in this
repository as templates.
If you do not have the CLI installed, follow [this guide](https://smithy.io/2.0/guides/smithy-cli/index.html) to install it now.


### What is Smithy
Smithy is an interface definition language and set of tools that allows developers to build clients and servers in 
multiple languages. A Smithy model enables API providers to generate clients and servers in various programming languages, 
API documentation, test automation, and example code.


## Examples
- [Getting Started](getting-started-examples/README.md) - Build the Smithy [quick start example](https://smithy.io/2.0/quickstart.html).
- [Conversion](conversion-examples/README.md) - Convert Smithy models to other formats (such as OpenAPI) and vice versa 
- [Custom Traits](custom-trait-examples/README.md) - Create custom Smithy [traits](https://smithy.io/2.0/spec/model.html#traits) to use for defining custom model metadata.
- [Projections](projection-examples/README.md) - Using Smithy [projections](https://smithy.io/2.0/guides/building-models/build-config.html#projections) to create different views of 
  your model for specific consumers.
- [Shared Models](shared-models/README.md) - Create a package of common Smithy shapes that can be shared between Smithy models.
- [Linting and Validation](linting-and-validation-examples/README.md) - Use linters and validators to ensure APIs adhere to best practices and standards.

## Contributing
Contributions are welcome. Please read the [contribution guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) first.


## Security
See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md#security-issue-notifications) for more information.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT-0 License.
