# Custom Linter Package
Use this package to create a custom [model linter](https://smithy.io/2.0/guides/model-linters.html?highlight=linter). 
This configurable linter can be included as a dependency in other Smithy projects to enforce API standards 
across multiple packages. 

## Building
To build this package run the following from the root of the package:

```
./gradlew clean build
```

This will generate a `build` directory containing the build artifacts generated by
gradle. The generated JAR file that should be used by downstream consumers can be
found at `build/libs/custom-linter.jar`


## Customization
To customize this package, start by updating the `settings.gradle.kts` file and update
the `rootProject.name` property to the desired name of your package. Also update the
`description` at the top of the `build.gradle.kts` file.

Next, update the java class `ForbiddenDocumentationValidator` class. The nested `Config` class 
is where you will define the configuration parameters for the linter that can be set in the 
`metadata validators` section of your smithy file. 

Finally, update the `io.smithy.examples.linters.ForbiddenDocumentationValidator$Provider` entry in the
`src/main/resources/META-INF/services/software.amazon.smithy.model.validation.ValidationService` file to reflect the
new name and package of your updated trait.

## Distribution
If you want to distribute the JAR file create by this package, consider adding the
[maven-publish](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/publishing_maven.html) plugin to the project to publish the JAR to a maven repository.