# Custom Annotation Trait
Use this package to create a customizable [Annotation trait](https://smithy.io/2.0/spec/model.html?highlight=annotation#annotation-traits).

## Building
To build this package run the following from the root of the package:

```console
./gradlew clean build
```

This will generate a `build` directory containing the build artifacts generated by
gradle. The generated JAR file that should be used by downstream consumers can be
found at `build/libs/custom-annotation-trait.jar`


## Customization
To customize this package, start by updating the `settings.gradle.kts` file and update
the `rootProject.name` property to the desired name of your package. Also update the 
`description` at the top of the `build.gradle.kts` file.

Next, update the `model/custom-trait.smithy` file to update the trait definition with your
new trait. For more information on defining traits in a Smithy model see: [Defining traits](https://smithy.io/2.0/spec/model.html?highlight=annotation#defining-traits). 

Once you have defined your trait in the Smithy model, update the java class `SpecialTrait` class to reflect
your newly defined trait. 

Finally, update the `io.smithy.examples.traits.SpecialTrait$Provider` entry in the 
`src/main/resources/META-INF/services/software.amazon.smithy.model.traits.TraitService` file to reflect the 
new name and package of your updated trait.


### Adding Traits 
You can define multiple traits within this package. To add a trait to this package, 
define your new trait in the `model/custom-trait.smithy` file. Then add a java class and
corresponding test class to the package.

Once you have a working trait definition in Java, you will need to add your new trait
to the `src/main/resources/META-INF/services/software.amazon.smithy.model.traits.TraitService` file
to make your trait class discoverable by the Java SPI and, by extension, other Smithy projects that 
depend on this package.

## Distribution
If you want to distribute the JAR file create by this package, consider adding the
[maven-publish](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/publishing_maven.html) plugin to the project to publish the JAR to a maven repository.